First off, many apologies for my delay in submitting this review. This summer has been full of travel, and I was perhaps too overcommitted to take on this review. Despite this, excuses are common, and I accept responsibility and offer my humble apologies for keeping the authors waiting. Nevertheless, I have finally pinned myself down and read the manuscript. My comments follow. 

In this article, the authors outline their belief that differences in how the macroevolutionary and macroecological displacement of clades by ecologically similar clades proceeds may explain differing patterns in age-dependent extinction. I appreciate the broad literature that the authors draw on in making their argument. I also thought that many of the scenarios outlined by the authors were very compelling and well thought out. There is a lot to like about the framing of this manuscript. Nevertheless, I remain fairly skeptical of the authors' main contentions, the crux of which is that their "Clade Replacement Theory" can explain differences in ADE across lineages. 

I am simply not at all convinced that CRT, as they term it, is sufficiently general to explain such a broad set of patterns. While the examples and scenarios explored throughout the manuscript are interesting, I do not see their "grand unifying" potential in explaining ADE. While the authors predict very neat relationships between lineage duration distributions and different CRT scenarios, I am not at all sure that the various ADE patterns would actually map to the CRT-based processes as neatly as hypothesized (e.g., see the paragraph on figure 2, below). Nevertheless, I do appreciate how their framework integrates both biotic and stochastic environmental shifts to explain observed patterns. I also thought that the way they mapped out expectations regarding the differing turnover rates expected for incumbent vs surrogate clades was very interesting and could lead to many other potential fruitful avenues. 


Figure 2 -- it is not at all clear to me that the CRT formulation proposed by the authors would lead to the relationships depicted in this figure. in the incumbent vs surrogate clade replacement scenario during an environmental shift, i would expect a somewhat bimodal pattern in extinction rate. presumably the longest-lived species in the surrogate clade will overlap in their durations with the shortest-lived species in the incumbent clade, and yet one would still expect differring diversification parameters. likewise, if the range distributions between each clade are non-overlapping, one would expect a discontinuity. while it is difficult to debate the general formulation proposed by the authors, it is simply not at all clear to me that the specific process that they outline would result in patterns that resemble the cartoons referenced throughout. There also seems to be an issue of temporal and taxonomic scale-- it is not at all clear to me how macroecological events as large as the replacement of brachiopods by bivalves can explain patterns at such a fine temporal and taxonomic scale as ADE. The authors need to explain more clearly how these scales link, both biologically and statistically, to yield the observed patterns.

Overall, I enjoyed reading this manuscript and I felt that it introduced a number of very interesting points. However, I am not at all convinced by the author's attempts to employ CRT as a cure-all for understanding conflicting patterns in ADE. Nevertheless, I feel that many of the arguments and scenarios presented by the authors would make a useful addition to the literature. I therefore suggest that the authors revise their work to make the application of CRT a bit more general, for example, by exploring more deeply the differences in turnover rates expected and how these patterns can explain major events in the history of life. I imagine there are plenty of other directions the authors might take this, but overall, my advice is to both make the links across scales clearer and to justify their mechanistic explanations more carefully and to also expand the scope of their argument to accommodate other patterns.
